Written by Mathias Dyssegaard Kallick 10/13/13

This folder contains the material that you will need to read to be ready for the python loop coding class that I will be teaching. Basically, we are using the easiest coding language to learn to display the usefulness of what you are learning, and its applications.

First of all, python is a coding language that is relatively new, and nowadays accepted as the easiest to learn. This is why you are learning it first. It is also the most understandable in terms of syntax.

So, basic coding stuff: Neither me nor Peter will care about how "pretty" your codes are, but you should know how to make a code nice. You will see me doing this in the scripts that I write. These things are just coding convention. First of all, the name of the person who wrote it should appear at the top, along with the date of the latest edit. In python, the computer will ignore anything written after a hash (#). This means that a programmer can put notes into a code without worrying that they will affect the code. It is also convention to do this, as small codes are often used as parts of a bigger project, and the writer of the codes wants the people who eventually use it to know how it works and why it works the way it does. Also, in the terminal, the command: "cat file.py" will display all of the notes from a file without opening it or running it.

Okay, now to programming. I'm going to teach you everything you need to know to write a loop by yourself. A loop is something that will run a command or group of commands a certain number of times. This can be extremely useful if you want to search in files, write the same thing over and over again, run a script over and over again (like the mac-silence script that is run in the computer lab, and iterates every 5 seconds), or print almost the same thing over and over again but with a small change each time. Loops are fairly simple to write, but you need to know syntax (how you actually write the command) and the commands for loops. There are two types of loop, while loops and for loops. For loops are for taking a list and doing something to each item in that list. While loops generally are used to do the same thing over and over. While loops are easier (to me) so I'll be teaching you while loops.

